1. Please complite XSLT test task (сделать xslt-файл для трансформации test.xml. Результат трансформации должен содержать отфильтрованные accountTransaction ноды, оставить только те accountTransaction узлы, которые:
 - имеют ноду updateDate со значением 2012-12-12;
И
 - значение ноды spValue начинается на BT.).

The file onnomatch.xsl makes a copy with the beginning of the initial xml file included, test.xsl adds namespace to each node, leaves out header, valid and party nodes, works slower than onnomatch.xsl.

2. Please explain what is XSD, show examples of financial XSD.

XSD is a quality control language that makes sure that information in an XML file is described clearly and has a way to be validated.

XSD stands for XML Schema Definition where schema is a standard way to structure information. 

Personally, I see XSD vs XML as TypeScript vs JavaScript or use of mypy library vs pure Python.

I viewed examples of financial XSD on this website: https://schemas.liquid-technologies.com/FpML/5.6/?page=example-extension-5-6_xsd.html

3. Please find information about ETL and explain in your words where and how you would use it.

ETL is a procedure consisting of 3 stages: 
extract (data collection and verfification), 
transform (data filtering and homogeinisation according to the destination parameters using tools like deserialisation, merge, aggregation etc.),
load (data transfer to the file or warehouse where it needs to be kept and used).
I would use it if I needed to consolidate data from different departments of a large company or to depersonalise data for analisys purposes.

4. Please write a working step-by-step plan/report of most interesting project of your career.

I think the most interesting project is yet to come in my career. For the moment let me write the steps of the Diploma project:
 
Selected and researched the subject area, conducted an analysis of research in the areas of project management, time, motivation, dialog artificial intelligence. 
Analysis of competitors, considered the existing developments in the closest related areas.  
09.2020-10.2020
Terms of Reference. Formulation of requirements. Definition of the structure of the application.
Layout of the site.
Comparison and selection of programming languages, frameworks, DBMS, chatbots, language libraries.
Received feedback from supervisor, refined plan for further development.
10.2020-11.2020
Initial design of system architecture.
Development of application framework. Static public pages.
Nested user profile application.
Nested application with "priority matrix" and "kanban table" tools.
11.2020-12.2020
Timer component.
Nested application control panel with user output.
Received feedback from supervisor, finalized plan for further development.
12.2020-01.2021
Chat bot - creating a library of responses based on recommendations from various books on project management and psychology.
01.2021-02.2021
Development of a bot that responds to user questions. Web service deployed at http://time-estim.herokuapp.com/.
02.2021-03.2021
Defining quality criteria. Testing of developed application. Modification. Respondents left positive feedback, the web application successfully
passed testing. Approval.
04.2021-05.2021
Description of the main directions of further improvement of the created product. Demonstration of the diploma - presentation of the project.
06.2021-07.2021


xml test online https://xslttest.appspot.com/ xml text test online https://www.w3schools.com/xml/tryxslt.asp?xmlfile=cdcatalog&xsltfile=cdcatalog_filter
docs https://www.w3.org/TR/xslt-30/ https://www.saxonica.com/html/documentation10/xsl-elements/mode.html
